[Music]
I'm sure like a lot of you
I've always reached for a stick of gum
after drinking a cup of coffee or eating
an onion heavy dish I always like to
come but I never thought I'd end up
chewing it every single day for a month
it all started when I came across this
article about the health benefits of
chewing gum it can help you lose weight
and burn more calories good
I'd been stacking on some extra pounds
recently it protects your teeth really I
always thought it gave you cavities but
I guess we'll see it can't improve your
memory awesome because I've been slowly
turning into Dory from Finding Nemo more
and more every day I figured one pack of
gum a day would be more than enough and
my weird experiment began the first
three days were fun if I wasn't eating
or sleeping then I was chomping down on
a piece of gum I gotta say my jaw didn't
take this challenge well at first on day
four it started aching a little from all
that extra chewing but the next day
everything went back to normal the next
few days went smoothly - the only thing
that bothered me was thirst I guess all
that sugar and artificial sweeteners was
getting to me but it wasn't that bad
either I finally started drinking eight
glasses of water or so a day and I'm
sure my doctor would be proud during the
next 10 days chewing gum became second
nature to me I didn't even think twice
about it and any resistance in my jaw
had gone away completely but now I had
to deal with another thing bloating
after a little research I found out that
it's the artificial sweeteners to blame
apparently they have trouble getting
absorbed into the small intestines plus
when you chew your favorite gum you
swallow tons of air - thankfully after
two or three days the bloating went away
on the bright side of things I started
to notice my weight slowly going down
well when you're constantly chewing gum
you have no time for unhealthy snacks
right plus you don't really even crave
them anymore so it was pretty easy to
avoid the junk food finally the last ten
days of my experiment approached
you know how a piece of gum feels a bit
hard in your mouth at first when you
chew on it my jaw got so used to it that
I didn't feel that at all but to be
honest by this point I was pretty sick
of gum it stopped being fun and became a
monotonous thing I had to do other than
that I felt completely find them the
greatest shock to me was the compliments
I started getting toward the end of my
experiment regarding my jaw line I mean
that was never one of my strongest
features but now it is I looked at
pictures of myself before and after the
experiment and I could see the change my
jaw line got way stronger and more
defined in just a month and I'm not
gonna lie this made me think twice about
stopping the experiment but I decided
enough was enough for now I guess you're
waiting for me to give you my final
conclusions let me think let me start
with the good stuff of course there's
the chiseled jawline thing I like the
way mine looks now frequent chewing
gives a great workout to the jaw muscles
and boom you look like Henry Cavill okay
well maybe not exactly the weight loss
was a welcome gift
it wasn't anything too dramatic but
still enough to feel more comfortable in
my body chewing gum basically tricks
your brain into thinking you're actually
eating so you don't feel hungry that
often and with almost zero snacking I
started feeling better too
remember how I told you that chewing gum
can improve your memory it supposedly
stimulates brain activity and I really
do think that there's some truth to that
I found myself more focused at work and
a lot less dependent on lists to remind
me of what I needed to get done I also
noticed that my stress levels went down
I am a big worrier so I was really
surprised when I looked back and
realized that I was a lot more chill
during the month I guess that chewing
motion calms the nerve center releases
stress good life hack and obviously
always having fresh breath was a big
plus
I didn't chew mint gum the whole time
but even the fruity flavors gave my
mouth a pleasant scent kind of a weird
observation but that's kind of the whole
point of gum anyway right but it's not
all sunshine and rainbows
there were some downsides to the
gloating yes it went away pretty fast
but it is something to take into
consideration if you want to start
chewing more gum the thirst it went away
a little bit when I changed my water and
strawberry gums to mint ones but I still
drank a lot more water than I normally
do I guess you can decide if that's a
good or a bad thing
and last but not least were the
headaches I had a couple major ones hit
me during the experiment and it had to
be because of all that chewing since I
never really used to get bad headaches
and I saw an article online linking the
two so chances are that was the reason
but those are just the things I
personally notice there's also tons of
research out there saying that chewing
stimulates the flow of saliva which
basically flushes away all the acids
produced by bacteria this makes your
teeth stronger and prevents tooth decay
some gums also contain this thing called
CP PE ACP it can harden your enamel and
provide extra protection for your teeth
plus there are plenty of dentist
approved gums out there still you should
be careful if you want to try this
challenge yourself as I was surfing the
internet and doing all my homework and I
found that one woman from Liverpool had
to have a jaw operation after chewing
gum for about seven hours a day
apparently her jaw muscles got worn out
and she couldn't even open her mouth
more than an inch okay but how much gum
should you chew a day then doctor say
you shouldn't do it if you don't have a
good enough reason for it the best time
is after meals again it's all got to do
with that teeth cleaning and digestion
boosting saliva production that gets
bumped up and don't forget that you have
to choose sugar-free gums to get all
these benefits as for me I chew gum only
about three times a day now after
breakfast lunch and dinner and of course
it's still nice after a cup of coffee to
my appetite is better than ever and that
Hollywood jaw line is still kicking
around
and I'm glad I did this experiment
what's the most exciting experiment
you've ever conducted let me know down
in the comments don't forget to give
this video a like share with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life